# Atomic-Orbitals-Visualizer
This project allows users to utilize Python to visualize the atomic orbitals of the hydrogen atom as 3-D volumetric density plots. This project is developed by Dr. Matthew D. Hanson for the purpose of helping students to better understand the nature of the atomic orbitals, the relationships between the quantum numbers and the nodal surfaces in the wavefunctions, and the relationship between the complex solutions to the Schrodinger equation and their real representations. This software may be utilized by anyone, though Dr. Hanson's original paper introducing this visualizer must be cited if this tool is used for other publications in the scientific literature, books, etc. 

The Hydrogen_Orbital_Visualizer_Installation.pdf file is included to help users with the somewhat annoying task of installing all of the necessary dependencies for this visualizer. Because this project utilizes the mayavi visualization suite, this list is rather long. Some additional instructions on how to run the visualizer once the necessary packages are installed are also given. Either of the files named Atomic_Orbitals_GUI may be used to visualize the orbitals. The .py file is a pure Python script, and the .ipynb file additionally requires Jupyter notebooks to be utilized. The latter includes multiple explanatory and visual blocks thoughout the code to assist with understanding of the code's function, but is otherwise virtually identical to the pure Python file apart from a few small quality of life options in the former. 

Lastly, the Hydrogen_Orbital_Visuzlizer_Features.pdf file is included to give users a reference for what to expect when adjusting the various options in the GUI. While these are generally strictly optional, many of these can be used to enhance the quality of orbital illustrations or help remove unnecessary visual clutter. 
